B2B marketing strategy. Why so many tech
and service companies skip the basics,
skip the fundamentals, [music]
when really we need to strip it right
back and understand the customer,
understand exactly what works when it
comes to mindset, resonating with dream
clients, and actually driving pipeline
that's going to influence sales and hit
real revenue numbers. I'm joined by
Luke, who's a marketing leader over at
Mark Vision. Luke, give us a quick intro
to yourself and look forward to diving
into the convo.
>> Thanks, Sam. Thanks for inviting me here
to a lovely cold harbor side in Bristol
with a pint which is relevant I think
for the amount of stress that marketers
go through. We need a few maybe not on a
Monday though. Former Bristolian myself.
I've lived in Spain for the last 11
years across different B2B SAS companies
different sectors. Currently at
Markvision as Sam said in the legal tech
space in charge of marketing for the
whole of Europe within Markvision. I've
worked with Sam for the last 3 4 months
on SEO. So we've spoken a lot about
different types of things that convert
better. Going back to the basics. Yeah.
Glad to be here. Thanks Sam. Cheers man.
Look forward to digging in because I
think this is something that's
overlooked by not just B2B marketers but
B2B founders cross tech software
services and much much more. So first
and foremost I'd like to know Luke from
yourself being in it dayto-day what do
you feel are the most important things
when it comes to B2B marketing? What's
what's the crux of it? Like how do you
win at B2B? What should be the
fundamentals? What should you think
about first before you dive in to
actually execute? So for me, customer
focus is the most important. I know it
sounds pretty obvious because I think
everybody will tell you that internally,
sales from upper management. But then
the one thing a lot of marketing teams
don't do and even a lot of sales team is
is understand how big is your target
market and who are they. If you look
across lots of whatever CRM you use,
you'll probably find really crazy
outliers and some of those crazy
outliers depending on revenue that would
be a lot of focus on a like a a snap
campaign about that specific client.
Then you realize there might only be 20
that are the same. So you need to
experiment. It's that level of
experiencing that the bare basics of
where that is is understanding who they
are from that place rather than just the
industry. So who is that person? How are
they using it? Stripping back from how
did they buy that and how quick was
that? Was it a very unusual necessary
problem rather than well that specific
let's say a football club bought us cuz
they had lots of fake shirts and they
really cared about that. Well, maybe
that's because there's a big income
source for them and you need to
understand that because another football
club might have sold those rights and
that happens, which is a weird legal
type example, but you really need to get
into the you need to interview your
customers. If you're going to do snap
campaigns, you need to interview them.
And then going on to the basics, you
really need to have a high converting
page and know that works before putting
this whole fortress of campaigns and
LinkedIn ads and SEO efforts behind it,
which I think a lot of people press play
on what they think works for another
company, for example. And uh I could go
on and on. It's quite a it's quite a
broad subject.
>> I like it. I like setting down the
foundation. What would you say? I mean,
we've done a bunch of interviews with
kind of customer research pros like Ryan
Paul Gibson who knows the customer
interview space, but what would you say
cuz I think this is still overlooked
massively. And I also think B2B
marketers don't get given the time or
resource they need to interview
customers properly and all that good
stuff. What would you say is the core
things cuz I know when you started in
your role, this was one of the first
things you did, listen to sales calls,
do interviews, and all that kind of good
stuff. What would you say is the core
thing that you need to pull from your
existing customers or if you haven't
gotten them yet prospects so you can
kind of set the groundwork before you do
any like tactics or strategy? Obviously
it depends on what you're selling as a
B2B business. I'm I'm working in tech.
We have a platform that has many many
different functions and features. A lot
of the customers might not use all of
the features and it might be a
surprising one which is we actually got
it this specific thing. Now it's rare
from a a marketer without listening to
that to just pitch one specific feature
when a lot of it's trying to get one up
on your competitor. So, they have these
six features, but our data is cleaner
and this is this. There might be a whole
different reason as to why they bought
you. It could be because the CSM team
are really hands-on and they like that
and that's that's the best way. Or it
could be just that it looks nicer. It
could be that the pricing was better
because it's unlimited seats rather than
X amount and there's no billing
differences. These are really important
pieces of information cuz you can push
that in ads then cuz you know if that's
a certain hitter, you can experiment and
go forward with that. But if you don't
listen to them and you're just trying to
do a one-up on your competitor, you
might be just copying their badly done
homework. And just because they're a
bigger competitor, you're going forward
with that sort of stuff. I think it's so
easily done, isn't it? We see a
competitor, oh, they've done this
billboard in Times Square or oh, they've
done this LinkedIn ad or they've started
a podcast, let's start a podcast, or
they're doing a weekly newsletter, or
they're running this ad, like it must
work because they've invested x amount
of cash into or x amount of resource or
everyone does a podcast, we should do
it. rather than actually thinking do our
target clients actually do this, listen
to this, consume this, watch this, read
this, spend time on this, do they will
they trust this rather than just like
you say doing a copycat program. So like
that as a starting point once you've
kind of pulled those insights, you've
done that backbone research, what are
you as a marketer that's hands on, what
are you diving into next?
>> I think then once you've got your, let's
say, preferred customers and what you
understand why they bought that for tie
into the last point, how many of them
are there really? How many? And if it's
not enough for your certain targets,
there might be something else in product
marketing that you have to look on and
that's everything really. It could even
be we should strip back the platform
from what we're offering because there's
a market that's way way bigger for this
specific problem. How can we bundle
that? How can we put that in a certain
way? I think then you're looking at the
fundamentals of a really good pricing
page and even if you don't have the
pricing, at least the offer, it annoys
me as an inbound lead. Let's say myself
gone onto a website and you go on a
pricing page and it just says a very
vague enterprise option and then there's
two other packages that look like well I
don't want all of that. So then you
start to look at competitors that might
be cheaper with just the same feature
which is a headache. There's different
ways of of getting around that. But
these fundamental pages on the site
which are conversion pages if you are
going to put anything into marketing and
that's what you know B2B is usually all
going through the website effectively.
It's rare that you get inbound calls I
think these days uh wanting to buy buy
your products. these are important and
then how easy is it to navigate and see
that quickly for certain personas. At
Mark Vision, we can sell to be two types
of buyers. One would be a legal profile
in a huge brand who know they need to
protect their brand, right? They need to
take counterfeits down. It's their job
and they have big teams to do it. But
then if you're looking at um let's say
an e-commerce director of a big brand,
they don't know if they care yet. How do
you pitch that? You can't say we're
going to protect your brand. Their job
is to get more sales. So you need to
link it in a very different way. You
need to give different features.
>> Let's link back to the customer
research. How are you tying that
specifically to this is something I talk
about a lot like even with SEO it's the
same it's the same k of fish it's like
you can optimize as much as you want but
if you don't resonate with that dream
client and their pain points their
motivations their goals their jobs to be
done like specifically what they care
about that's putting their job on the
line risking something usually it's to
do with risk like I might get fired I
might lose staff might lose headcount re
might might not hit our pipeline or our
revenue number how are you tying what
you've learned from that previous stage
to inform like you said what key pages
is for specific ICPs that you're trying
to attract and convert. It's a good
question, tough, I think. Real quick, if
you want to start fueling your sales
team with a steady stream of leads,
demos, or booked calls from SEO and
organic search across AI and Google. Why
not grab a call with myself over at
breakingb.com?
We can chat through exactly how SEO
could potentially help your business
drive a steady stream of inbound through
organic search. Head over to
breaking.com or hit the link in the
description below. Right, back to the
video.
>> I think you mentioned something about
almost like empathy. So, if you can
empathize with the person who's bought
it or empathize with their sector,
that's how you'd go ahead with any
messaging communication. Let's say
you've done the interviews, you've got
your basics of let's say you think the
product market for these certain
purchases based on the data or what
certain buyers have had with it. I think
then being a thought leader is a good
way to do it. You go interviewing people
in the street about SEO, right? That's
getting people involved and asking apart
from what you think to other people what
SEO is and then you can go on top of
that with other different thought
leadership stuff. From Mark vision, do
we understand what a legal council does?
If so, we can go to events and we can
start to form communication and a
product around it or an e-commerce
director. Two different worlds really.
This is empathy is is the key I think.
>> Talk to us about go to market. So you've
talked about I know you've got some
expertise in conversion rate
optimization and CRO. You mentioned a
bit on the website there. I suppose
before marketers or founders actually
dive into like okay I know what my
customers care about etc. I'm going to
dive into SEO, Google ads, LinkedIn ads,
going to do build an outbound sales
team, going to do a cold email engine,
going to do cold calling, events,
whatever it is, whatever that go to
market strategy is, hopefully backed by
actually working out where our target
clients spend time and trust. How do you
then leverage that to think if those
prospects come to our foundations, be it
the website or elsewhere, we know that
we've got a trustworthy source to
convert them. How do you think about
that? And then going in to go to market.
>> So, I've worked with SDR teams as well
on outbound communication as well. Now,
I'm on the marketing side. So I look at
how pages are built and what what's on
them. I'm working in legal tech. I'm
working at Mark Vision. That's my second
um position in brand protection. I can
talk internally with a product marketer,
a senior sales leader, even up to like a
HR team. And the way we speak about
things as if it's just common sense cuz
we're in that bubble. We're in that
world. We're in that bubble. You've got
to do external testing with that. You've
got to ask I when I when I make a
presentation or a one pager, let's say,
I'll send it to my mom who's really not
technical. She's really not. or other
people similar, let's say, who has no
idea what I do. But if they can
understand it, if I can get it to that
level of communication, then it usually
performs better and you have to test it.
But then internally, you think you might
feel like you're stupid, you know, to
explain it like you're a 5-year-old. But
sometimes it's necessary cuz in sales
when you when you're selling like an
enterprise software and as very senior
people who are really successful, like
you might be speaking to an e-commerce
director of Coca-Cola and you want to
come across a little bit more, look at
what we have and we're in this and this.
actually the guy really might not even
use the tool. You might have a team and
he's like but what does it do? Like
[laughter]
does it do this because this is what we
want. That's what my team is saying and
you need to really dumb it down
sometimes to get that conversion. And I
think that's something that people
forget in their own bubble of uh going
to market. Let's say STRs are a great
example cuz they're usually more I think
the majority usually more junior
profiles who go into the business. I
imagine it can be quite quite stressful.
They have to join a tech company. might
be the first time in a technology
company and they want to sound as good
and as technical as possible and as
senior as possible especially the people
they're reaching out to the juniors who
would use my basic messaging and then
just calling people in a certain way
like I want to speak to you because of
this they would start to get good
results then as soon as they hit a point
where their knowledge was too much they
wanted to spout their knowledge and the
results would tank and that was a good
learning curve for them. I can relate to
this so much because my background is I
run an SEO agency but my background is
marketing sales and content. I cold call
when we first started breaking B2B. My
our first we were bootstrapped. Our
first couple clients were from whilst we
were building up our SEO and content
marketing agency agency. First couple
clients were from cold calling, cold
email, etc. I've cold called many times
and I completely agree like the most
simple stripped back messaging works so
much better. Like these are the pain
points. Are you struggling with this?
like in our case, competitors ranking
above you in Google and you're stealing
XYZ, whatever the simplest way that your
customers could describe it like because
if you can't describe it to like you
said like a 5-year-old or your grandma
or someone that doesn't have a clue what
the heck you do like how can you
describe it to a busy whoever your ICP
is that's whilst you're cold calling
like the best way to test messaging
they're probably about to jump into a
meeting or get in their car or picking
their kids up or about to have lunch
like you've got to get that crisp
specific painful problem across in a
couple seconds and they don't care about
the like the jargon that you're
trying to put across. So, I think that's
a good way to a good way to put it. I
really like that. And then before we
jump kind of further into the convo, one
thing, what would you say is the kind of
one or two biggest lessons that you've
picked up from a background in sales
that have influenced kind of as a
marketing leader, like how you how you
go about things?
>> Nothing. No joking. Of course. No.
Hopefully, I've learned a few things. I
mean, the game's changed as well. Now,
it's about standing out more than
anything, especially with outbound. It's
so saturated everything. like the reason
I know about your services and we work
together is because I saw something
different on my feed on LinkedIn right
you do your videos etc and I think what
I've realized with let's say outbound
SDRs and sales or managing them I
thoroughly learned more from managing
than than actually selling in a way was
that where somebody feels comfortable to
do something different and easier my my
top SDR enterprise rep many years ago he
wasn't very good at emailing he didn't
like calling so I set him up to just do
videos and he just sent probably 10
videos a day personalized to different
people they hadn't received anything
like that and and it's not even
scientific or data driven, which is
horrible for a marketer to to look at,
but it's about, let's say, the the the
crazy stuff you can do is um stop asking
me if it's okay every video and stop
doing this. He goes, would you reply to
yourself? That's a good lesson for
myself. I when I look at something,
anything I do, communication, would I
respond? And that doesn't mean that
you'll respond, but at least at least if
I'm happy with the communication that
I've sent out, that's going to ring
true. And then the second thing I think
is um data, which is really boring. I
would judge a salesperson on on their
CRM cleanliness ahead of everything,
which is super boring, I know, but
that's where the lessons are. That's
where the gold is. Uh, as a salesperson,
I was a massive note taker. I'd have
three pages of notes after every call.
>> Everything would be full because you can
forget cuz timing is everything as well
in certain sectors.
>> Big time.
>> 6 months down the line, you go, I've got
a reminder. Oh, who was Sam? Great. I've
got everything on that call. I've got
all the notes what he cared about then.
And if I do outreach with those notes,
you're probably going to respond. If I
say this date back then, you spoke about
this this this. So, it's about pushing
the boat and being being different and
just really measuring or and note-taking
and recording exactly what you've done.
I think those are two things I don't see
in GTM. There's a lot of people using
clay automated outbound sequences.
They're trying to find that magic bullet
for on bulk, but honestly, the two basic
things there, that's what I would double
down on.
>> Yeah, I like it. When we're moving on
into, okay, we've built up this
foundation. We're progressing. We're
kind of learning from what we're doing.
We're going into kind of strategies. I
suppose we're looking at it from we're
maybe an early stage B2B marketer or a
founder. So we're thinking how many
channels do we start on? For example, is
it Google ads? Is it SEO? Is it LinkedIn
ads? Do we build our podcast? Do we
start an email newsletter? Do we start
doing webinars? Like you've got so many
channels. I think B2B marketers are
often overwhelmed because they get the
leadership ping them in Slack saying,
"Oh, we should do this. Our compet like
you said, copycat campaigns. Our
competitors done this. Let's do this.
Let's look at this. Let's consider this.
How do you pick like your big bets? Cuz
you've only got so most B2B marketing
teams like especially the ones we deal
with like series A, series B or
Bootstrap like two to three marketers,
maybe a few more. You've only got finite
time and resource. How do you decide
where you take your bets?
>> First off, I think you got to think
about how not to make that a bet and
choose one particular channel and
experiment with what can convert there.
That's what they teach now in a digital
marketing masters. First thing I think
Airbnb used one platform and then went
into many many different right now I
think they used uh Gumree to start and
that was it cuz they knew the customers
were there that people looking for
rooms. So people looking for rooms were
only test ads on messenger and gum tree
and then from that point when they had
one that was really converting they they
went into others. So I think that is
where are e-commerce directors usually
for big brands on LinkedIn. I would just
start there. I would I wouldn't even
look at other channels until you've got
something highly converting because the
question about how many channels and
what which will work best. That's just
efficiency of a channel. You want to
look at efficiency of what you're
putting out there first because if you
start on one, it's not working, you just
change to another and it doesn't work.
Is it the channel? Probably not. It's
probably that you haven't got something
out there that's getting that attention.
So,
>> yeah.
>> I often bang this drum, but I don't know
if you see much of Alex or Mosy stuff,
but
>> he often times like business owners will
call into him. They'll be like, I'm
doing this. I'm doing this. I'm thinking
about expanding into this niche or doing
this and he'll be like what are you
doing now and they'll be like XYZ as
channels or go to market or strategy and
he'll be like well where do most of your
customers come from and they'll be like
I don't know for example meta ads or
Google ads or SEO whatever it is and
they'll explain it so be like just spend
more on that channel you need to
completely exhaust that channel until
you can until you've hit capacity you
haven't got a demand issue you've got a
supply issue and sometimes when I think
back I think I could just literally do
the same in my business like most of my
clients I can literally look at my data
now I've outlined it and my CRM or in my
case Google Sheets because I'm a lazy
lazy and I haven't put together a
detailed CRM, but it's all in Google
Sheets. So, I can literally just like,
okay, my last XYZ customers come from
here. This is driving the most pipeline.
Let's just double down on this instead
of kind of over complicating it. I know
they spend time on these channels
because I've I regularly run customer
interviews. I've got a good pulse on the
market. In my case, I run podcast
interviews and marketing leaders. In
your case, you're digging into the CRM,
speaking to customers, speaking to
prospects. And it sounds simple, but
it's often easily neglected, especially
when you've got like leadership telling
you, "Oh, we should be doing this or
other companies doing this and kind of
been worried that you're not ahead of
the trend when often, like we say at the
start of this podcast, going back to the
stripping it back to the fundamentals
tends to work."
>> Do you think it could be because of
people's targets that they get away from
that marketers?
>> Possibly.
>> I mean, look at previous jobs I've had
and I'd go in and I might not have time
to really strip down and go back to the
basics. And you might be insulting
somebody.
>> Good point. If you go into a company,
your B2B marketing manager, and they go,
"Right, you're in charge of LinkedIn
ads, and by the way, we only hit 15 MQLs
before you joined. Our target's 40 on
that platform." It might be quite hard
to go, "Right, well, we're going to I I
need quite a bit of time. Just look at
this copy."
>> Or you might go, "Oh my god, I need to
put out a quick value offer. Can I give
a discount? Can I say do a referral
scheme? Can I put more money there?" So,
that that has something to do with it.
Usually, these things are about
communication, setting expectations. Do
you have time to do it? If you're new in
a company, it's probably best to put it
in your 30, 60, 90 day plan. Even if
they don't ask you to do that in an
interview process, I'd recommend doing
it. And then when you go in and they
say, "Do this." So, whoa, whoa, you
hired me on this. So, I know it's it's
not looking into the details. There's no
gold in terms of a magic bullet for your
audience. But sometimes it's just about
that communication at the start and not
getting ahead of it. And then later
there might be a way, well, we can't do
that. We've tried this, etc. But usually
targets, KPIs, and and lack of
communication from not from the actual
company or the people who've been there,
from a new starter could be something to
be said there. That's probably why your
sales background kicks into play. Cuz
I've said this before, but marketers, if
you're going to go into a B2B marketing
role, you need to pre-qualify the role.
You don't go into a role and then think,
"Oh god, I've got to generate, I don't
know, 50, 60, 90 MQLs month one from
LinkedIn ads." You pre-qualify it. And
that's why kind of setting expectations
up front is smart if you're going to be
going into B2 marketing ro saying look
what do you expect of me and then saying
look I've worked in marketing before
this is not realistic like month one I'm
going to be doing customer interviews
I'm going to be working out I'm going to
be you've never done proper customer
research I'm going to work out what they
care about where they spend time if
LinkedIn ads is actually the channel for
us and how we can go about it rather
than you expecting us to generate random
leads from like random signups by 30
days like let's actually be realistic
and if they're not an organization that
appreciates that needs to be part and
parcel of the process then probably not
not a good fit for you and you probably
don't have a good runway there as a
marketer. Like if they're expecting that
month one, like what do they expect by
month six? Like 200 million pipeline.
Like it's insane. Like and I think
that's something that it's a tough from
what I see. I'm fortunate I'm an agency
owner. It looks like a tough market for
agency owner. Um not agency owners for
marketers especially in the tech world
like there's such high expectations. So
I think a lot of marketers kind of think
I can't pre-qualify. But like most
things I often say often the issue with
a lot of things is having a full
pipeline. and marketer space have a full
pipeline of opportunities for potential
job roles in my space have a full
pipeline of potential clients. I guess
the same in your world which sometimes
is easier said than done but it seems to
cure a lot of issues.
>> It's different every organization right
and uh the professionals who've seen an
unbelievable way of doing stuff for
their brand and then they get a nice
offer from a startup as well and they
brought in this is the golden boy as
well. He comes from Amazon he was uh the
top digital marketer there. There might
not be the resources, time, different
product etc. And then you don't know.
You just don't know. And and everyone's
learning together. I think I think if
you're going to Amazon, you're probably
going you probably should copy what they
copy what they tell you to do.
[laughter]
If you go to let's say a VoIP phone
system that isn't doing particularly
well, you probably shouldn't copy what
they've told their team to do. That's
renewed about six six months every six
months.
>> Good fun. Le appreciate the
conversation. Thank you for sharing kind
of your hands-on experience. You've
literally been there. you've been at
kind of startup companies and you've
been at more mature SAS companies. So, I
appreciate you kind of sharing what has
and hasn't worked. So, with that, please
do tell our audience more about how they
can learn more from yourself if they
want to connect with you. And anything
else you like to share? Um, don't cold
call me uh LinkedIn Luke Davis. If you
put Malaga, I think I'm probably the
only Luke Davis on Malaga on LinkedIn.
Uh, yeah, on LinkedIn or
Luke.davismarkvision.com
if any of you are brand protection
specialists. Okay. Thanks, Sam. Thanks a
lot for having me.